Assets
Are economic reources of a company that are expected to benefit future operations. Some assets like accounts recievibable are amounts owed to the company. Other assets can be characterized as deferred expenses.

Liabilities
Are obligations to pay cash, transfer assets, or provide services to other entities.

Shareholders' equity
Is the owners investment in the business. Thoeretically, is is what would be left over for the owners after all the liabilities are paid. It is equal to net assets: Stockholder equity= Assets-Liablities.

Shareholder's equity(2)
Contributed capital or common stock

Retained earnings
Is equity that has been generated by the company's income producing activities and kept for use in the business. ie. not dicstrubted to shareholders as a dividend.

Revenues and expenses
Are increase and decreases in retained earnings (And stockholders' equity) that result from operating the business. They are rpoerted in the income statement only.

Dividends
Dividends are distrubutions of retained earnings. Dividends are not expenses.

Balance sheets
Are cumulative. They represent a given point in time. They represent all transactions since inception.

Income statements
Represent only the results in a particular accounting period.

Recognition
Refers to deciding when to record a transaction

Accounts
Are storage units for accounting data. An accounting system has a seperate account for each type asset, each liability, and each component of tockholdes' equity

Normal balance
The normal balance of an account is its usual balance and is the side (Debit or credit) that increases the account.

Assets (ecept accumulaetd depreciation)
Expenses and dividends have a normal debit balance, therefore, they are increased by debits.

Liabilities, shareholder's equity, revenue, and accumulated deoreciation
Have a normal credit balance, thereforem they are increased by credits.

Prepaid expenses
are assets

Unearned revenues
ARE LIABILITIES

Trial balance
Is a listing of each account shown as either a debit or a credit. The debits equal the credits. Trial balances are prepared at the end of each accounting period.

Business transactions
Are economic events that effected the companys financial position. They usually represent exchanges of value

Recognition
When Does the transaction occur? Has there been economic performance?

Valuation
How much?

Classification
Which account? Asset or expense? Revenue or liability?

Accounts with normal debit balances
Assets (Except accumulated depreciation) expenses, dividends. These accounts are increased by debits; decreased by credits.

accounts with normal credit balances
Liabilities, revenue, common stock, retained earnings and accumulated depreciation. these accounts are increased bu credits, decreased by debits.

Order of recording transactions
1. Source documents are analyzed.
2. Transactions are recorded in jounal entries.
3. journal entries for a period are posted in a general ledger.

A general ledger
Can be viewed as a book with a page for each account. each page lists and summarizes the activity in that account according to the journal entries.
The balance of each account is summarized on a trial balance. Debits are shown on the left and credits on the right. when totaled the debits must equal the credits.

Financial statements
Are prepared by company management and aufited independaent public accounts

The rules of account are called generally accepted accounting principles. In the u.s. the primary rule maker is the financial standards board (Fasb)
...

Chapter 3: measuring business income
...

Recognition of revenue:
All pf the following conditions must be met: Evidence of an arrangemmtn between the 2 parties.
2. the goods have been delivered or the services performed.
3. The price is fixed or dteriminable'
4. Collection is reasonably assured

accrual accounting
Refers to application of the matching rule. Revenues and expenses are recorded in the periods in qhich they occur, rather than when they are recieved or paid.

Mathing rule:
Revenues are assigned to the period in qhich goods or services are performed. Expenses are matched to the period in which they are used to produce revnue.

Adjusting entries
Are necessary when transactions span 2 or more accounting periods. Asjusting entries never involve cash.

Type 1
Allocated recorded costs etween two or more account periods: that is, cash already been paid. Ex: allocating prepaid expenses or deprciating assets.
Dr. Expense
Cr PRepaid asset or accumulated depreciation.

Accumulated depreciation
Is a contra-asset account; that is an asset with a credit balance and grouped with proert, planet, and equipment.

type 3
allovated recorded unearned revnue between two or more accounting periods where cash has been recieved in advamce.
dr. unearned revnue
cr. revenue

Type 2
Recognize unrecorded, incurred expnses.
dr. expense
credit liability (Ex: wages payable)

Type 4: recognizing unrecorded, earned revnues.
Dr. asset (usually accounts recievable)
cr. Revenue

Deferral
Is the postponement of recognition of an expense already paid (Type 1) or of revenue recieved in advance (Type 3). The cash payment or receipt is recorded before the adjusting entry is made.

Accrual
Is the recognition of a revnue (Type 4). or expense (Type 2) that has arisen but not been recorded during the accounting period. The cash receipt or payment occurs after the adjusting entry has been made.

Closing entries
Income or revnue accounts, expense accounts and dividends re temporart accounts. They only accumulate data for the current accounting period and must be zeroes out at the end of each period and closed to retained earnings. For closing the income summary account is used. This account is only used during closing.

Steps for closing entries:
1. Revenues are closed to the income summary. Debit each revenue account and credit income summary.
2.Expense accounts are closed to the income summary. Credit each expense account and debit income summary.
3.The balance of the income summary is closed to retained earnings.
4. Dividends are closed to retained earnings. Credit dividends and debit retained earnings.

Classified balance sheets: divied into the following categories:
Assets : Current assets are cash and other assets that a company expect to convert to cash, collect, sell or consume within one year or one accounting cycle. examples: cash, accounts recievable, short term investment, notes recievable due in one year, supplies, inventory, prepaid expenses

investements
Are assets usually long term, that are not used in normal business operations. Examples:
Long term notes recievable, land held for future use, plant or equipment not in current use.

Property plant and equipment
Are tangible long term assets used in the trade or business, accumuated depreciation is also included in this group as a contra account.

Intangible assets
Are long term assets with no [hysical substance. Ex: Trademarks, patents, goodwill,

Liabilities(Ch4)
Current liabilities are obligations that must be satisfied within one year or oine accounting cycle. ex: acc. payable, notes payable due in one year, wages payable, unearned revenue expected to be earned in one yeAR.

Long term liabilities
Are all other liabilities including unearned revnue expected to be collected more than one year from now.

Stockholder's equity
Is contributed capital plus retained earnings.

Evaluation tools
Working capital is current assets minus current liabilities

Current ratio
Is current assets didivided by current liabilities

Profit margin
Is net income divided by net sales

Asset turnover
Is net sales divided by average total assets. (Average total assets is determine by adding beginnning assets and ending assets and dividing by 2)

Return on assets
Is net income divided by average total assets.

Debit to equity ratio
Total liabilities divided by stockholders equity

Return on equity
Is net income divided by average stockholders equity

Dividends are not expenses and do not affect net income
They are a distribution of retained earnings.

Accumulated depreication is a contra asset account.
This means that it is paired with property plant and equipment and a negative asset. Therefore has a normal credit balance. it is not a liability.

Depreciation expense is an allocation of cost.
...
